[MUSIC]
In this video we're going to look at
the role of Excel in data and analytics.
Excel has been around for a long time,
and many viewer as the first tool to
learn when you're starting out
in the data and analytics field.
The next two courses in this
specialization will go into detail on
exactly what Excel can do and
how you can use it.
In this video, I'm going to talk at a high
level on what the tool is, how it's used,
and what types of problems it can solve.
Excel is a spreadsheet
developed by Microsoft.
It has calculation,
graphics tools, pivot tables, and
a macro programming language called
Visual Basic for Applications, VBA.
Excel lets you organize numeric or
text-base data in spreadsheets or
workbooks.
You can take raw data and
organize it and rearrange it, so
that you can perform complex
analysis of the data.
To visualize your data, Excel allows you
to create different types of charts,
including line and column charts, or
add miniature graphs called sparkline.
You can also use Excel to apply
a table style, create pivot tables,
quickly insert totals, and
apply conditional formatting.
So, why would you use Excel,
when there are so many more robust and
analytics tool available?
Here are some of the key
benefits of Excel.
It's easy to use.
It's extremely versatile.
It's dynamic, making it easy to
explore "what if?" scenarios.
Complex data can be presented in
a clear and visually appealing way.
It can automate data processing.
It integrates with Microsoft Office.
And of course, everybody has it.
Excel is a very common tool for
data and analytics.
There are many, many options out there
that you'll learn about in this course,
but Excel is an excellent one to start
with in your career in data and analytics.
It can be used to analyze data
in many different job types for
different reasons, and
many of the Excel skills you will learn
translate to more advanced
tools in the industry.
Here's an example of how we used Excel to
combine sales data by distribution channel
to look at growth opportunities
by product and country for
a medical device organization.
We combined their historical data along
with macroeconomic data, and developed
models that allowed the company to predict
sales based on varying assumptions.
These models were also displayed in
graphs, and BBA was used to provide a user
interface that allows the client to
toggle between the views and produce
multiple scenarios based on varying
assumptions for comparison purposes.
In this video, we discussed the role
of Excel in data analytics.
Excel is an easy to use tool
that is extremely versatile.
Learning Excel will make it much easier
for you to pick up more complex data and
analytics tools in the future.
[MUSIC]